<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
    <head>
        <title>Endnotes</title>
        <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
        <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body epub:type="backmatter z3998:non-fiction">
        <section id="endnotes" epub:type="rearnotes">
            <h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
            <ol>
                <li data-se-note-number="1" id="note-1" epub:type="rearnote">
                    <p>Aristotle, in his “Physicae Auscultationes” (lib.2, cap.8, s.2), after remarking that rain does not fall in order to make the corn grow, any more than it falls to spoil the farmer’s corn when threshed out of doors, applies the same argument to organisation; and adds (as translated by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Clair Grece, who first pointed out the passage to me), “So what hinders the different parts (of the body) from having this merely accidental relation in nature? as the teeth, for example, grow by necessity, the front ones sharp, adapted for dividing, and the grinders flat, and serviceable for masticating the food; since they were not made for the sake of this, but it was the result of accident. And in like manner as to other parts in which there appears to exist an adaptation to an end. Wheresoever, therefore, all things together (that is all the parts of one whole) happened like as if they were made for the sake of something, these were preserved, having been appropriately constituted by an internal spontaneity; and whatsoever things were not thus constituted, perished and still perish.” We here see the principle of natural selection shadowed forth, but how little Aristotle fully comprehended the principle, is shown by his remarks on the formation of the teeth.<a href="../text/historical-sketch.xhtml#note-1" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
                </li>
                <li data-se-note-number="2" id="note-2" epub:type="rearnote">
                    <p>I have taken the date of the first publication of Lamarck from Isidore Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire’s (“Hist. Nat. Generale”, tom. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">ii</span>. page 405, 1859) excellent history of opinion on this subject. In this work a full account is given of Buffon’s conclusions on the same subject. It is curious how largely my grandfather, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Erasmus Darwin, anticipated the views and erroneous grounds of opinion of Lamarck in his “Zoonomia” (vol.  i. pages 500⁠–⁠510), published in 1794. According to Isid. Geoffroy there is no doubt that Goethe was an extreme partisan of similar views, as shown in the introduction to a work written in 1794 and 1795, but not published till long afterward; he has pointedly remarked (“Goethe als Naturforscher”, von <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Karl Meding, s. 34) that the future question for naturalists will be how, for instance, cattle got their horns and not for what they are used. It is rather a singular instance of the manner in which similar views arise at about the same time, that Goethe in Germany, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Darwin in England, and Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire (as we shall immediately see) in France, came to the same conclusion on the origin of species, in the years 1794⁠–⁠5.<a href="../text/historical-sketch.xhtml#note-2" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
                </li>
                <li data-se-note-number="3" id="note-3" epub:type="rearnote">
                    <p>From references in Bronn’s “Untersuchungen uber die Entwickelungs-Gesetze”, it appears that the celebrated botanist and palaeontologist Unger published, in 1852, his belief that species undergo development and modification. Dalton, likewise, in Pander and Dalton’s work on Fossil Sloths, expressed, in 1821, a similar belief.  Similar views have, as is well known, been maintained by Oken in his mystical “Natur-Philosophie”. From other references in Godron’s work “Sur l’Espece”, it seems that Bory <abbr>St.</abbr> Vincent, Burdach, Poiret and Fries, have all admitted that new species are continually being produced. I may add, that of the thirty-four authors named in this Historical Sketch, who believe in the modification of species, or at least disbelieve in separate acts of creation, twenty-seven have written on special branches of natural history or geology.<a href="../text/historical-sketch.xhtml#note-3" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
                </li>
                <li data-se-note-number="4" id="note-4" epub:type="rearnote">
                <p>I am indebted to the kindness of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> W.S. Dallas for this Glossary, which has been given because several readers have complained to me that some of the terms used were unintelligible to them. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dallas has endeavoured to give the explanations of the terms in as popular a form as possible.</p> <a href="../text/glossary.xhtml#note-4" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
